.TH POWER-PROFILED 8 "December 2025" "Power Profile Manager 1.0.3" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
power-profiled \- Power profile management daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B power-profiled
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B power-profiled
is a lightweight daemon that manages CPU power profiles based on battery level.
It works in conjunction with TLP to provide three-tier power management:
.PP
.IP \(bu 2
Performance mode when on AC power (managed by TLP)
.IP \(bu 2
Balanced mode when on battery with charge above threshold (managed by TLP)
.IP \(bu 2
Ultra power-saving mode when battery drops to or below threshold (managed by daemon)
.PP
The daemon monitors battery status at regular intervals and only intervenes when
battery level reaches the configured threshold, applying aggressive power-saving
settings to extend battery life.
.PP
.B IMPORTANT:
This daemon requires TLP to be installed and running. The daemon will not start
if TLP service is not active.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from
.I /etc/power-profiled.conf
at startup.
.PP
.B THRESHOLD
.RS
Battery percentage threshold (5-99) to trigger ultra power-saving mode.
Default: 30
.RE
.PP
.B INTERVAL
.RS
Check interval in seconds (1-600). Default: 60
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/power-profiled.conf
Configuration file
.TP
.I /var/run/power-profile-state
Current profile state file
.TP
.I /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/
Battery information directory
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM, SIGINT
Gracefully shutdown the daemon
.SH LOGGING
The daemon logs to syslog with facility LOG_DAEMON. View logs with:
.PP
.RS
journalctl -u power-profiled
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR power-profile-ctl (1),
.BR tlp (8),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yourusername/power-profile-manager/issues
